From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, all weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three Oh nine.
Recorded live Thursday, March 8th, 2012. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by Telerik rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode of the startup series,
Scott talks with Alan Mendelevitch
about creating the startup ad.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman,
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
I'm talking to Alan, Mendelevitch
from Lithuania. You're calling me
from Lithuania. You sound very
clear. Yes. I'm calling from
this way and we are
like the fastest internet speed
country in the world. According
to some stats, actually, I
don't have the fastest internet
here, but it's good enough.
I think So I would
think that this is a
small country and that it
would not be the center
of the internet, but you're
having no trouble with bandwidth.
Not really, actually we have,
I think we have our
main uplink to Sweden and
we, as we are a
small country, it's not that
difficult to have fiber optics
everywhere. It's pretty great. That's
congratulations to you and your
country. And I think I
wanted to talk to you
in the context of a,
of startups because you have
a startup and you've done
startups before. And I wanted
to understand some of your
early attempts to make a
startup, as well as what
kind of challenges that you
have to deal with doing
a startup from, from a
small Eastern European country, nothing
against us mania, but it's
not exactly San Francisco. Yeah,
it's definitely not San Francisco
in disregard, but it has
its ups and downs it
because of that too. So
we have like, we have
no pressure as people in
San Francisco to raise a
million million dollars before you
have anything working, we actually
have to do something before
we can even think about
it. So that's good. I
think on the bad side,
actually, if you want to
raise money at you, you
would definitely need to start
thinking about moving somewhere. There
are some venture capitalists over
here, but it's not as,
as, as vibrant as it
is in Silicon Valley. I
guess I've heard, as I
talked to people who do
startups, that they prefer to
have those startups be. Self-funded
like I use get hub
as an example. And these
kinds of like personally bootstrapped
pro you know, companies, don't
you think it's better not
to take money and wouldn't
it be ideal to be
in a small Eastern European
country and run a run
a boutique? I mean, does
everyone need to have a
hundred employees and $2 million in
venture capital? No, no, not
really. I actually a big
fan of not, not going
anywhere big, but sometimes some,
some business ideas, you know,
they are like, you ain't
gotta go big or are
you going over? If you
want to make next Facebook,
you can do it from
your bedroom because that's, they
need some mass of users
to be successful. That that
totally depends on your idea.
And I know people who
are very successful, do we
not raising a cent of
money? Not, not doing any
paid advertising and stuff like
that, but that's not what
you call a startup in
Silicon Valley terms. It's just
a nice, good, small business.
That's providing a great lifestyle
to peoples. Yeah, I guess,
I guess you could call
it a lifestyle, a startup,
or I like to use
the word boutique. Like I've
never understood why someone would
have a perfectly good company
with a couple of people.
Maybe even 10 people. Everyone
is making a nice living
and they're paying their mortgage.
Why would you want to
rush off and try to
make that too big when
you've got a good thing
going, you know? Yeah. Some
people have a rash to
be important, famous, insane region
instead of just reach. So
Do you think that the
cloud and the introduction of
the cloud has democratized for
lack of a better word
has democratized things for people
who live in small in
small countries. I mean, you
could be a giant company
and I would never know,
right? Yeah, Definitely. With basically
we currently my current startup,
a duplex, we run on
Azure and it helped just
in a sense that I
would never be able to
start this thing if I
had to, to, you know,
run servers or something like
this. And that's important for
many people, obviously it's not
necessarily that you have to,
to, to use some, you
know, this cloud services like
Azure and Amazon, but, but
to tell us a lot,
So you have no it
department, right? Is it just
you or are there anyone
else helping you? So right
now I have one employee.
I was, yes, I I've
started it. And I did
it alone for almost a
year. But when, when you
start doing some like business
stuff, you basically have no
time for development and that's
annoying and you start doing
development, but not doing business
side of it. And then
you start doing business side
of it and not moving
the project forward in terms
of features and stuff like
that. So I figured that
I have to have someone
to help me with this
part of things. So the
startup is ad duplex, a
D D U P L
E X, add duplex.com. And
it's an ad exchange network.
That's specific to windows, phone
apps and end games. So
what is it that it
provides? So I w I've
been a developer myself the
whole life, and I've been
developing on Microsoft stack and
the past, I don't know,
maybe 10 years and in,
in the last few years
have been doing WPF and
sort of late development. And
then I was excited about
windows phone and basically immediately
after a windows phone launch,
I started seeing people on
Tuesday were complaining about not
getting any exposure for the
apps and not investing, investing
our time into making these
great apps and games, and
then not getting any traction.
And they thought, well, most
of these apps are ad
supported and they are not
making any money from this
ads anyway. So why not
help each other and to
just use that ad space
to promote each other's apps.
So that's how a duplex
was born. Basically, the idea
is that you create an
ad for your app, place
a line of, to it
and start showing ads for
other apps and they show
your ad singers turn. And
that's how it works. And
how many, how big is
this getting? I mean, again,
you're one person with one
employee, but you're on Azure.
So this could be, this
could get pretty large. I
mean, ultimately, where do you
need to scale? So right
now we have more than
an 800 active apps and
we're serving one and a
half million ad impressions today.
So, you know, in, in,
in ad network terms, it's
not that week, but it's
definitely bigger than something you
can host on shared, shared
hosting, which how it started
actually in five, the first
version of it was hosted
on shared hosting. And I
saw it when I crossed
5,000 impressions a day, I'll
move to Azure. And somehow
I crossed that 5,000 very
quickly and I only moved
to Azure and I had
like 50,000 impressions a day
and we have one to
one and a half million.
And we are writing now
on three instances on Azure,
only this ad serving part,
actually, if we optimize our
code better, we could run
them on less, I guess.
But, but you know how
it, how it is with
projects like with startups, you
need to move forward, not,
not just optimize your court
for your own pleasure and
stuff like that. Did you
think about things like that?
I mean, you're growing and
you've now on three instances,
the cloud, but you say
you could maybe make it
more optimized. Isn't it really
more important how fast you
serve the ads that you
can always, I mean, like
how do you balance things
like that? Like you could
really go in and put
in some caching and do
a lot of work to
optimize your code and, but
what are you getting? So
basically we, we do it
this way when we, when
we want to touch that
part of the code that
is responsible for say serving
ads, we, at the same
time, we improve the quality
of it, the optimize it,
but not, not, we almost
never do any work just
to optimize things, because know,
there's always a lot of
things on the, on the,
to do list. And I
can pretend that we have
all the best practices in
place. We just move forward
for now, Do you, when
you ever start up, like
you have, and you have
one employee, but it's, it's
going well. I assume if
you're growing and you're getting
more impressions than you thought
you would, do you ever
just hang out for awhile?
Let's just like, do nothing
all week long, or do
you have like a huge
backlog and like all this
pressure to do more things
with the product? Well, w
when I had no employee,
I actually could hang out
for a week and that
was good and bad thing
because basically I felt no
pressure except for, from, from
the passive backlog at now,
where I feel the peer
pressure to do something that
I can, can just tell
the guy to, okay, let's
drink coffee for a week.
So, and I w I
could easily do that like
three months ago when I
was alone, but not now.
So you're saying that because
you have an employee, he
expects you to give him
things to do so you
have to like That, that
mobilizes you a lot. I
mean, you could be a
self disciplined person, but unfortunately
I'm not that person I
can procrastinate. If I, if
I get a chance, What
were you doing before you
kind of went full time
with this? So I worked
on the WPF Silverlight and
windows phone parts of a
project called and charts are
actually very popular charts for
web apps, which were based
on flash. And now they
are JavaScript charts to hedge
smell five charts, and I
was doing a.net part of
it. So, and I've started
to add duplex at the
same time. I mean, this
year, while I still was
doing charts, and then Microsoft
did a not very nice
thing to all the WPF
and silver lights control vendors
out there by not saying
anything about it in relation
to windows, windows eight, when
it first was announced, announced
first, and basically the sales
of the WPF and silver
light part of, of that
business went down pretty rapidly.
So it was actually a
very good thing that I
had at duplex going at
the same time, because it
could have been sad for
me personally. So that gave
you an opportunity to kind
of get out. Yeah, basically
not, not, I didn't get
out totally. I still support
through the charts and stuff
like that. But, but, you
know, since it was a
time of uncertainty about what's
going to happen to all,
all these things, we we've
kind of halted all the
future development for some time.
Yes. So, So I, I
had the chance to concentrate
100% on that duplex. Huh.
And was it a, was
it, is it a big
deal? I mean, I don't
know how it works in
Lithuania, but here not only
is there, like, you know,
there's wives and girlfriends and
kids and all those things
that keep you from quitting,
your job and healthcare, how
does it work where you
are? Are you able to
jump in and do the,
you know, kind of take
the plunge and do this
thing full time? Or is
there a concern that if
this fails, you become homeless?
So in reality, I've, I
haven't worked for Forman for
like more than 10 years.
We have our own small
consulting company, which at this
point is basically does nothing
as a company, but is
there a place where, from
where we, each of us
are on their own things.
So I I've, I haven't
got a real salary in
more than 10 years. So
it wasn't that big a
deal to me. But at
the same time, I've always
wanted to do something like
products. But, but I, I
did the consulting work for
all these 10 years because
I needed to make money,
you know, to make more,
more and more of a
guaranteed money than something that
I maybe could, could make
on art. So, and I
was always afraid to took
with that part of my
occupation. It was just a
good opportunity at this time
that I still had income
from Amtrak and, and started
getting eaten, come from a
duplex. So just work out
good. When, when do you
have to worry about healthcare?
Like here, I hear a
lot of people, the United States
say that they would start
a startup, but they don't
want to cause their healthcare
through their employer is very
good. So basically we have
a basic health care for
freedom, not for free, but
it's mandatory. Basically you pay
like 20 to $30, I
guess, a month. And you,
and you can't quit paying
it. So you pay it
anyway. Most of the time
you pay through your employer,
but it's not a big
deal to the basic health
care is not an issue
when you create a job.
So to do something better,
I mean, if you are,
if you're, if you are
working for minimum wage and
you have no work, then
maybe it's an issue, but
if you're a software developer,
so I guess you can
always deal with this without
any higher, bigger problems. I
I've heard stories about Americans,
like really, really having to
think about this, the staff,
when they are quitting their
jobs, but over here, it's
mostly, you have to think
about just making money to
buy food. A lot of
stuff, not about healthcare is
not the biggest part of
it. Yeah. I've definitely, I,
I hear a lot over
here, people that now, if
you're, if you're 22 and
healthy and have no dependence,
I can think one would
be less concerned, but you
could still get hit by
a bus and go bankrupt
because of healthcare here in
the, in the U S
but I do hear a
lot of people saying that
they wish they would start
a startup, but there's also
retirement. Like we have 401ks,
which is our, our retirement
funds. And you don't really
get a pension unless you
work for the government or
a local municipality. Do you,
do you guys think about
things like, well, I can't
have a startup because I
won't be able to retire.
So that's a good question.
And since we came out
of Soviet union sometime ago
and all our savings just
disappeared, I guess people are
not expecting much from the,
this type of things and
thinking about, you know, you
have to make money for
your retirement while you are,
while you are, while you
can, I'll go slide, not
talking about everyone. Quite a
lot of people are, are
thinking about these things and
are afraid to lose it.
But basically pension is quite
small over here and you
wouldn't want to live on
it alone anyway, so, Huh.
So you had a pension
kind of out there in
the communist times, but now
that's, that's all gone. Not,
not really a pension with
there were, there were savings
and people, you know, in
Soviet union, their salaries were
a small, but you couldn't
buy anything for, even for
that. Anyway. So PE people
used to save money in
the bank and then basically
we get people were saving
all their lives and they
got after the Soviet union
collapsed something like, you know,
you could buy a very
old car for that money,
but nothing more. So now
that you have this startup,
is there anything about being
where you are in, in
Lithuania that is going to
prevent you from becoming a
millionaire, just like kind of
the, the new capitalist dream.
Is there anything about the
municipality or the way that
you guys run things in
your country that prevents you
from getting rich on this
startup? There is one issue
over here that when you
create a company over here,
you basically have to put
money into, you know, started
with some start capital. And
if, for example, you agree
with someone that they will
give you, like, I don't
know, hundred thousand dollars for
like 20% of your company
that then, then you will
own 80%. And basically you
have to put in the,
what, what did we, 400,000
into the bank anyway, or
you have all, you have
to, you know, have your
business appraised by some legal
entities that it's worse, half
a million, and you would
never get it at other
than that. There is no,
no limitations to what you
can do, I guess. So
I don't, I don't quite
understand that if you're saying,
if you want someone to
give you money, you need
to already have money, Basically
by the law, you can
only establish a company by,
you know, putting in the
money in, in equal proportions,
not in equal Bettina. And
if, if you, if someone
pays, you gives you 100,000
for 20% and you own
the rest of it like
80% and you have to
put money. That's like, you
can't, you can't put a
price on your intellectual property
on, on what you do.
You basically have to put
money into the Real money.
So you're saying that if
someone wants to give me
a hundred grand, I have
to have 400 grand to
show that there is value.
So I can't, I can't
say these patents are worth
$10 million. You can go through
official channels and try to
prove that these patents are
worth $4 million for four, for
$200,000, but that's difficult. I'd
say, yes, You just start
a company. You know, I,
I, I guess you can
start a small company and
then, then take money into
that company with less problems.
But for young entrepreneurs, I
think that could be a
big problem to start, because
there are quite a few
people who want to give
you money, but because of
this limitation it's becomes tricky.
It almost sounds like making
a small boutique or lifestyle
startup or bootstrapping your own
startup is, is the way
to go. Doing big investment
is just not feasible. Yeah,
basically that, yeah, that's true.
Interesting. So you do advertising,
but you do it on
windows, phone app, unlimited phone
app marketplace, not, not iPhone
or Android, at least not
yet. And I assume that
you do this cause you
were a Microsoft kind of
developer and you were into
Microsoft technologies and you knew
the space, but it is
the windows phone big in
Lithuania, Basically nonexistent and Lithuania.
It's not officially released, even
though we released, even though
you can buy HTC phones
officially here, and I guess
you can buy Samsung phones,
LG, but there is no
marketplace in Lithuania and it's
coming this month on the
consumer side. But on the
developer side, it's still not
available and no, no dates
were given when it will
become available for developers to
submit apps directly. But, you
know, I was quite shocked
when I heard the news
first at mix in 2010,
we were like not allowed
to do apps in any
reasonable way, except for, you
know, through friends in, in,
in the first world country.
So establishing a company in
some other country, then, then
Microsoft introduced the notion of
a global publishing partners inside
like proxies, who help you
help all these countries that
are not in the official
list to, to post the
apps to the marketplace. And
it's doable now, but it's
still not that not as
good as, as you get
as when you live in
United States or Germany or UK.
So w I often hear
about other, other folks in
other countries that are angry
because some contest isn't allowed
or so, you know, Microsoft
won't allow them to see
something or download something. Do
you, why do you think
that, that they do that?
Like, they're not evil. They're
not, I mean, I don't
think there's any people sitting
around thinking, how are we
going to stick it to
the Lithuanians? Yeah, I guess,
I guess the simple answer
is that a huge companies
are around by lawyers, not,
not businessmen. And basically, I
guess before Microsoft lawyers sign
off on lithium constitution or
something like that, no one
is allowed to move into
Lithion and market. That's my
understanding of things. Have you,
okay, so have you found
by dedicating yourself to the
windows phone that you're, you're
limiting? I mean, why didn't
you jump into the iPhone
marketplace and start doing an
ad thing? Or did you
feel like you went to
the windows phone because there's
no competition? So one thing
is that, as you said,
I was in their developer
community on windows phone, and
I knew how to jumpstart
it and how to bootstrap
it without investing money into,
you know, promotion and marketing.
I had no money to
start it. And as I
am not an iPhone developer
and developer basically would mean
that I have to invest
quite a lot of money
to just start something there.
And there is more competition,
even though I don't think
there is anything exactly like
a duplex on iOS and
Android. The basic reason is
that, that I I'm no
one there in that community.
And I don't know how
to start it without, without
a huge investment. And I'm
not ready for that at
this moment. I see. So
this was almost like it
was less risky Initially. It
was, it wasn't even a
business idea. It was like
a community project. I still
like to think that I'm
not in advertising business, but
in developers, developer tools and
services and something like that.
And to, so it was
built like from windows phone
developers to windows, phone developers,
and now it's more like
a business, but I still
think that we have quite
a lot to do on
windows phone. And the better
path for us to expand
would be to bring those
eight then to other platforms
at this point in time.
So do you think that
this, this technology that you
have, and then this, this,
this group of developers that
are all working on windows
phone that are now using
your product will move kind
of cleanly over to windows
eight? I would think that,
that everything that you've done
would move neatly over there.
If you had the controls
ready for people to start
dropping ads in right away.
Yeah. That would be my
cheesier. And that should be
more natural way for us
to expand. And I see
a lot of developers, a
lot of renos fund developers
trying things on windows eight.
And I'm pretty sure that
quite a lot of windows,
one developers with little release
apps on windows eight too.
Have you got any windows
eight offering already or is
that something that you're working
on now? No, we don't
have anything yet. We're just
starting our work in that
direction, but we will definitely
something before it's released before
it RTMS. Are there any
issues with, with piracy or
intellectual property theft or things
like that in, in, in
your country or in your
community? So at this point,
it's basically now, I mean,
I mean, it is everywhere.
You can find computers with
fire to software and stuff
like that. But on a
global level, we are pretty
clean. Now I would say,
but like 10 years ago,
15 years ago, it was,
you know, open season, no
one ever bought any software,
not stuff like that. It
was always free. And, but
now I think we, at
least in businesses, it's, it's
not often that you find
pirate software used, but in
early days of the independence
and in Soviet union, and
especially you couldn't button by
any software, actually, if you
wanted to use it, you
had to steal it. There
was no other way. So
you, you have an unsupported
eye unfettered windows phone, then
that in a, in a
country that doesn't support it
with a larger company that
doesn't support you. So as
for windows phone, I don't
know, what's the status of
support on it. We just
can't buy apps. I have
to, at this point, I
mean, in a month, we
will be able to buy
apps when it was announced
that we will, we will
be officially welcomed into windows
phone as, as consumers. But
at this point I have
a Metacam live ID and
I have to buy stuff
from American or UK or
whatever marketplace. And, and it's
actually quite difficult to start
buying apps on windows form.
You can just input into
the lithium credit card credentials
and start buying apps because
it won't accept it. So
even though it's a small,
kind of a small market,
are you finding that it's,
this business is growing for
you? I mean, it's able
to support you and one
employee. Yes. Like three, four
months ago we had like
800 ad impressions per app
every day. And now we
have like close to 2000
tied impressions per app on
average. So is your ad
impressions per, per application? So
if I, every day, yeah.
Okay. So it looks like
the market is growing and
to, I guess, thanks to
Nakia, we start, we have
started seeing, you know, fallen
everywhere and people start showing
their interest in those phones.
And I, I, I'm pretty
sure the market share will
grow. How big, I don't
know, this is a analyst
predictions that will overtake windows,
phones or iPhone, but I
know this is Alan, his
predictions, but anyway, I think
we will grow nevertheless to
a reasonable place. I think
it's interesting though, because you
have a perspective though, that
is a little bit more
Okay. Kind of grassroots. I
mean, we can, we can
talk about how many copies
of this software has been
sold or how many licenses
or how many phones have
been shipped or how many
people bought phones. But you're
actually on the back end
watching people with phones all
over the world, launched their
apps and how long they're
sitting in their apps. I
mean, how much information are
you able to keep? You
know, what apps are in
there? You know, who your,
who your client is, you
know, how long they're in
the application because you're serving
the mass. Yeah. So basically
now we serve ads to
150,000 users a day unique
users. And we don't collect
much information about them at
this point, because as I
said, it starts at us
as a side project. And
I was very worried that,
well, I will get zillions
of records of future records
in the logs and I
couldn't pay for it. But
we are in the process
of releasing an S a
second version of our SDK,
which will let us and
developer see more stats about
the users and the usage.
At this point, we only
know the countries, we know
the number of users, number
of impressions, but not much
more. And do you, do
you think that, do you
think that that data is
valuable in itself that you
could be giving that data
to someone? Or is that
just something that you're just
going to kind of say?
No, I don't think so.
I think that this data
is mostly valuable to the
developers to see who, who
is using their apps. And
honestly, I don't think about
monetizing the data data itself
in some, in any way,
because that's not what is
in our plans to do
in, in any foreseeable future.
Do you, do you, do
you give the, the, if
I have an app and
I put your ads in
it, do you give me
all this data? So I
could log into my kind
of dashboard. You can log
into your dashboard, you can
see it, you can download
it in CSV and do
whatever you want with it.
Didn't you tell me that
you thought that me selling
my application for a dollar
was a mistake. What I
told you is that not,
not, not, not having a
trial is a mistake because
of the way people download
and buy apps on windows
phone. Right? If, if we
take your app, let's say,
if a user comes, finds
your app via my Mark.
So it looks for something
like this. So my understanding
is that an average, an
average user would go, the
process would be like this.
He will search. He will
look and download all the
relevant free apps. First, if
you find an app, that's
good enough for him, then
it's done. If he doesn't
find an app that free
app, that it's good enough
for him, then he will
look at trial. He will
download apps with his trial,
and he looks at them.
And if he finds what
he got an app that
is good enough for him,
he may buy that app
and his done. And only
then if all of this
fails, he will look at
your app. That's my understanding
of the process. How an
average consumer looks at apps
in windows, phone marketplace. I
think that I should just
go to a trial or
do you think I'll make
more money on ads? On
my, on my application, my
little screenshot application. Yeah. So
your app is probably not
the best candidate to be
monetized with ads because it's,
you know, people don't try
on your app. Often. They
just ran it once or
twice to do what they
need. And they're done so
pro for ads, you need
something more time consuming. And
with some reuse volume like
games or something for the
apps and something like this
for your app, you probably,
if you want to monetize
it, you should sell it.
If you're thinking about making
money from it should, but
I guess you would, I
guess you would make more
money if you make it
free and to, you know,
play some button to donate
to your diabetes fund or
something like that, then, then
you would make money selling
it. That's my understanding of
how things work. If you
are a game developer and
you are not an Xbox
live game, basically if it's
clear that you have to
go out support, that you
should want to make any
money. All of the success
stories in games are from
people who made their money
from ads. I haven't heard
a single case of someone
making any reasonable money by
selling games, except for Xbox
live games for apps. It's
a little bit more tricky,
but because of different kinds
of apps and stuff like
that. But for games, it's
definitely, if you're, if you're
not able to become a
expo slide game, then you
should, should go free with
ads. And then Are you,
are you, are you able
to tell me kind of
in closing who or which
application is the most successful?
Is that, or is that
a violation of their privacy?
Like other of your people
are the other guys that
you work with who make
apps? Is there one that
would be okay for you
to say, Oh yeah, such
and such. If windows phone
app is doing great with
ads. So our, our mission
is not to, to monetize
apps. We are liking more
help promote apps, but there
is quite a lot of
public information. For example, there
is a guy , who
is one of the most
outspoken and probably the most
successful independent windows phone game
developer. He has 15 apps,
not fun, but 15 apps,
15 games. Yeah. High quality
games. No one knows how
he finds the time to
make them, but he actually
quit his job to do
this full time. And he's
posting his revenues openly. And
last year he made $600,000
from advertising. Only opened that
data point. The other one
is a game called crash
Lander. So the guy who
makes it actually works only
like an hour and a
half every morning from 4:00 AM
on it. And because he
has, you know, a family
and the real job and
stuff like that, and he
made like $25,000 or something
like this from advertising on
it, he only has one
game. That's great. Well, it
sounds like what you said
that it's growing, it's getting
bigger. So that's kind of,
what's the most, the most
interesting data point to me
is, is what your trend
line looks like. You know,
are people buying these phones
or are we just a
bunch of developers buying these
phones and then developing for
each other? Yeah, it was
a random joke like half
a year ago. But now
I think I see more
people using the phone. My
daughter has a phone and
she goes to school and
lots of kids wanted because
it actually costs now comparable
to cheap Android phones. But
the transmit you're better than
cheap Android phones and no
one gives very key iPhones.
So I think in this
sector, we are pretty good.
Well, very cool. Well, thanks
for chatting with me today.
Folks, can folks look at
Allen's product to add duplex.com?
You can follow him on
Twitter and check out his
blog. And I will put
all that information up in
the show notes. Thank you
for having me. Of course.
My pleasure. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.